# Describe Three Collision Solution Strategies Not Mentioned Previously



### &bull; Double Hashing
Double Hashing makes use of an offset, in addition to the hash value. If a collision occurs at the hashed location, the next position will be checked.  This second location will depend on the offset number in conjunction with the key value. This means the value will be different for different keys.

The offset is determined by getting the modulus of `key` and the next prime lower than the current table size.


### &bull; Random Hashing
The hash key is generated by a random number generator who's output is based on the key being entered.  This ensure each number produced by the RNG has been seeded using a different value, thus limiting the chances of a repeated value.

### &bull; Hopscotch Hashing
Each bucket has a "neighborhood" of buckets--which are consecutive addresses to the bucket in question. The primary bucket is in the same memory location as all the buckets in the neighborhood. That means look-ups for items in 1 neighborhood will be in contiguous memory locations. This is cache friendly.

----

# Create your own collision resolution strategy and describe how it works.

This collision resolution strategy is a bit math heavy, and mostly unrealistic in production, however I was struggling to think of a method that isn't similar to the ones presented in the checkpoint.  Though it soon became apparent that we can only handle collisions but so many ways.. it all comes down to numbers, and how can we change them, predictably, within a given range.

What I decided was:

> _k_ = (Math.floor(_hash_/2)+1)^2
>
If we were to add "Michael" to the table, it will hash to `691`, with a _true index_ of `5`.  Using the above formula we get the following using a 7-bucket table:

> _k_ = (Math.floor(_hash_/2)+1)^2
>
> _k_ = (Math.floor(691/2)+1)^2
>
> _k_ = (Math.floor(345.5)+1)^2
>
> _k_ = 346^2
>
> _k_ = 119716
>
>true_index = _k_ % _size_
>
>true_index = _k_ % 7
>
>true_index = 2

Adding `59` would result in an initial `index` of `3`, and will produce a collision index of `4`.  Likewise, adding 38 produces an `index` of `3`, and a collision index of `1`.